# React Design Patterns and Best Practices

## Who is this for?

> When you've learned the basics of React and are wondering where to go next. Or maybe you're looking to make React development more intuitive for yourself so that you can build anything you can imagine. Well, whatever the case, learning and mastering React design patterns might just be the way to take your software development career to another level. Things that will take you from a beginner or intermediate level to an advanced level in React.

## What you should already know?

> In order to get the most out of the docs, there are a few things that it would be helpful for you to know beforehand. The first thing that it would be helpful for you to have is a basic experience with React, right? Just knowing the basics behind how React works should be sufficient. You should also have some experience with **React Hooks**. Now, hooks being a more recent addition to the React Library. You might want to brush up on these before you start reading through, since we'll be dealing about those in detail. It would also be helpful for you to have some experience making **network requests** in React. And finally, a little bit of experience with functional programming would be very helpful, but this is not something that's required for this course. So if you're missing one or more of these prerequisites, feel free to brush up on those beforehand.

## What are design patterns?

> Design patterns are **effective** solutions to common application development challenges.There are a lot of solutions to different problems that are not effective and that lead to more brittle code down the line and make your apps less performant and less maintainable. Those are generally referred to as anti-patterns. So design patterns are the positive equivalent of those. So in other words, they're the most effective solutions to a given development challenge. Now, one caveat before we move on is that many of you may have heard of design patterns used in a different context, such as object oriented programming. Well, the design patterns that we're going to be talking about in this course are not those. In other words, they're not the so-called Gang of Four object oriented programming design patterns, such as creational, behavioral patterns, et cetera. There's something a little bit different. Basically the patterns that we're going to be covering here are things that we generally run into time and time again in basically every React application. Some of these challenges include things like creating reusable layouts to put our components into. How to make things like split screens and modals. Another challenge is how do we reuse complex logic between our components. In other words, if we have two or more components that need to do the same complex things such as load data from a server, how do we best represent that in our React apps so that we can share that code between those components instead of having to copy and paste it. Another extremely common challenge is working with forms in React. This is something that despite hundreds of articles out there on how to do this correctly. So we'll be discussing how to do that in React. And finally, we'll finally discuss to see how to incorporate some concepts from functional programming into our React apps.
